[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: So, back to our track
checkout if you recall from before,
that silly scenario about the eCommerce.
And rather than passing my callback in,
what if we were to modify that API such
that it returns back
an event listener to us?
As you see on line 11 I listen to,
I receive a listener back from the track
check out function and then on line 13.
I listen to the completion event and
when it finishes I move on.
And I listen to the error event and
Can you see how that is an inverted
the inversion of control or
rather just simply retain control?
Because now rather than passing
my call back into that utility,
giving them the keys to the kingdom by
which they can do whatever they want and
I can't trust that they won't
do what I don't expect.
I've retained control.
I've simply said no you just
give me an event listener,
I'll figure out what to do.
Well I'll listen for that event and
we could wire it such that we listen for
the event and then unsubscribe to
the event the first time it happens for
example, like we are in complete
control of that paradigm.
So, we've normalized, we've brought
more sanity back to this process,
rather than passing the call back in.
That's an important
understanding of promises,
is that they uninvert
the inversion of control problem.
That's a big deal.
That's not a small point,
that's one of the most important points.
Promises were designed to un-invert
that inversion of control.
Rather, to retain that control,
so that all of those trust issues
that we were talking about before have an
ordered and patterned way of being solved.
Now, we don't actually listen this way.
This isn't how most APIs design, no.
Although, it's an established pattern
that we can at least understand, but
it's It's a metaphor for
thinking about a promise.
A promise is like an event listener.
But rather than there being a completion
event, we call that event the then event.
And that's where we start to
talk about the API of a promise.
So, in that truck checkout utility.
Rather than receiving a callback as
a parameter we can simply create a promise
as you see on line two on
constructing a promise instance.
The constructor for the promise received
two methods the resolve and the reject.
It's pretty clear what those
do by the way I named them.
You call resolve if you wanna resolve the
promise if you want to fill it completely
or correctly and you call reject
if you need to reject the promise.
Back to my future cheeseburger
this is the only two options.
Either I'm eventually gonna get my
cheeseburger or, the lady is going to call
me back up to the counter and say this is
a tragedy but we are completely out of
cheeseburgers, I'm gonna have
to give you your money back.
This is the only two options, right?
Either I get my cheeseburger or
get my money back.
So, we can either fulfill the promise
calling resolve or we can reject it.
Those are the only two outcomes
that a promise can have.
So, whatever that magic is I'm alighting
that information because that isn't
the important part but whatever that
logic is inside of track check out and
even if it's a call resolve or reject.
Now, you notice that we're
returning that promise instance, so
when we return that promise instance
we're going to use it in our code.
Just like I'm doing here on line
11 I receive a promise back and
the notice our line 13 instead
of saying dot on completion.
I'm saying dot then I'm registering for
then event
>> Kyle: The then event is gonna be called
when either resolve or
reject is fired against that promise.
It will fire then event if
you will metaphorically and
one of those two functions passed
into it's gonna get called.
Finish will be called if the promise
was fulfilled successfully
error if it was rejected.
So, we have actually
a nice clean mechanism for
being notified that it was either
a success or that it was a failure.
It's incredibly important, step forward
for an inversion of inversion of control.
Inversion of control is sometimes
used in an intentional way.
Framework design author sometimes will
use in fact, inversion of control is one
of the key characteristics that has
classically been used to define something
as a framework as when it inverts control
when you pass in stuff in it calls for
you instead of you calling things.
I don't know how many of you are familiar
with some of those more classical
thinkings about software design but that's
one of the characteristics that divides
between a library a framework
is that inversion of control.
So, some people will tell you that
inversion of control is an intentional
design feature and
I would tell you as far as asynchronicity
is concerned it's a terrible idea.
Inversion of control is the path
to the dark side here it is
the path by which we completely lose
all reasonability in our program.
So, we are trying intentionally
actively on purpose
to uninvert that paradigm to
bring it back into our control.
That's what promises are doing for us.
So, this isn't actually
about an API at all.
This isn't about lack of indentation.
In fact if you pay close attention,
you notice there's still
a ton of callbacks here.
In fact there's more callbacks
here than they were before.
Wait a minute, hold up.
I thought promises were all about solving
callback error, getting rid of callbacks
how on earth are they fixing anything
if there's still callbacks involved?
Really important question.
If there's still callbacks involved
how does this promise system
offer any solutions to us?
You might ask and rightly so.
But wait,
if I passed my callback into that promise,
can't the promise just call
my callback a bunch of times?
How can I trust the promise to
do what it's supposed to do?
That's the most important question
that can be asked at this point.
Because you need to understand
that promises were designed
to instill trust into this transaction.
The fundamental design principle
that they're only resolved once,
they can only be resolved as a success, or
an error the messages that get
passed to a promise are always kept.
It becomes immutable,
exceptions are always caught and
turned into errors that are always
observable there's nothing swallowed.
If you choose not to observe
because you're lazy or
you make a mistake, then it might look
like it was swallowed but it definitely
was not swallowed in the sense that you
had no opportunity to observe them.
This is a huge deal.
This is a whole bunch of
sanity brought back to
a process that has fundamentally
been rather hard to understand and
rather hard to maintain for
the entirety of JavaScript history.
So, here and we do start to see
some of the benefits of the API.
These are things above and beyond this
notion of time independent state.
I said that was important,
that's our foundation.
Built upon that,
we have all of this trust added to it.
And that is primarily the mechanism
in the API that we've been given,
is designed to organize our
callbacks in that certain way.
In fact, a third way of thinking
about what a promise is,
is that it's a callback manager.
It's a pattern for managing our
callbacks in a trustable fashion.
>> Kyle: That's a big deal.
That's why promises matter,
it's not really so
much about whether you
like the shiny API or not.
It's not really about whether you wanna
get rid of nesting or indentation.
There is a promise hell and
it's easy to get into or no silver bullet.
But there's a really important thing that
they've been designed to do that is to
instill trust back into our systems.
Even more than just trust in this way.
Now that my value is immutable I mark that
one on purpose because now mind that my
value is immutable from
the outside it cannot be changed.
That means I can send that container to
any port of my system or even outside of
my system to other third parties and
I can say, here is my value and
I do not have to worry that they're gonna
change that value out from underneath me.
Remember we talked about immutability
in the other workshop and
how important that is.
That's one of these fundamental import.
In fact, one of the most important things
is that there are externally immutable.
There's no action at
a distance concern here.
If you don't know that phrase, action at
a distance, that's one of the evils of
software architecture when you design
a system, where somebody else far away can
do something that affects
you without you knowing him.
It's a bad idea.
Just as a little side note here.
There are discussions happening around
promises that in a future version of
JavaScript, we can make it this
notion of a cancellable promise.
I'm not gonna go into all the politics and
all the craziness that's
around cancelable promises.
Just briefly to state to you, it's kind of
a tail wagging the dog as far as I see it.
They have this other sort of thing
that they want to control and
that thing that they want to
control only exposes promises.
And so, let's make promises cancelable so
that we can control that thing.
Instead of making that thing controllable.
It's crazy to me but you know what's
bad about cancellable little promises?
Action at a distance.
I have a promise that's not yet resolved.
I pass it to somebody else and
they can cancel it out from underneath me.
What?
That's nonsense.
That erodes the entire foundation
upon which these things are built.
So, if you see me ranting about
cancellable promises this is why.
I take it seriously because
this is an important thing.
We shouldn't throw it away just because
we're drunk on this idea of pretty APIs.